---
layout: post
title: "Ultimate Coast to Coast Route"
author: "Erik Azar"
categories: route
tags: [trip,route, kwtopb]
image: route.png
---

The journey begins in Saint Augustine, FL and heads south to Key West for the official starting location. From there I'll ride north to St. Louis for a visit with my son for a nights rest after completing two IronButt challenges within 36 hours. Once rested I'll head north to Canada entering through Saskatchewan. I'll work my way northwest into Alberta, through British Columbia, and into the Yukon Territory. Once I enter Alaska I'll ride towards Fairbanks, which will lead me to the Dalton Highway where a challenging 414 miles ride until I reach Deadhorse. This will mark the end of stage 1 of the trip.

From Deadhorse I'll head back down to Fairbanks and backtrack until I reach Whitehorse in the Yukon Territory and head north up the Dempster Highway. It is one of Canada’s most epic roads, leading from Dawson City, Yukon, to Inuvik, Northwest Territories. The route crosses the Arctic Circle and winds through mountains and valleys amidst extraordinary scenery. In Inuvik, it connects to the new Inuvik-Tuktoyaktuk Highway route, which runs all the way to the Arctic Ocean. It is Canada’s only year-round road that crosses the Arctic Circle. But this drive is challenging, stretching 543 miles one way on a gravel road. When I reach Tuktoyaktuk I plan on taking a swim in the Arctic Ocean. This will mark the end of stage 2.

After spending the night in Tuktoyaktuk the journey continues heading south to visit Jasper/Banf National Parks in Alberta; Yellowstone National Park in Montana; Arches, Bryce Canyon, and Zion National Parks in Utah; Whitesands National Park in New Mexico; Big Bend National Park in Texas, a day in New Orleans, then head east towards Saint Augustine, FL for home.

The total milage is targeted at 15,163 miles from start to finish. During the ride I'll have performed 3 oil changes, greased the rear drive shaft splines and changed gear fluid, checked/adjusted the engines valves, and go through at least 2 sets of tires. I'm thankful for Amazon Lockers and CycleGear locations along the way to drop ship those items as I need them.

{% include figure image_path="/assets/images/route.png" alt="this is a placeholder image" caption="This is a figure caption." %}